The Chronica Lexis Tome is an item that binds itself to a specific player on attainment and allows them to store and activate "scriptures" that grants effects either one time or using a toggle for passive effects. The tome collects a potentially infinite amount of energy based on how long the player has been playing the game. Scripture always has some kind of beneficial effect and a cost in time energy, with potential consequences for stronger effects. Scripture can be rarely found in treasure chests and one will always be present in the chronolith structure. Scripture comes in four tiers with increasing strength and requirements, going "Weak", "Standard", "Strong" and "Exotic". Some scripture can be levelled with the different tiers, granting stronger effects, whilst some are locked to specified tiers only. Scripture can be activated or toggled with a dedicated "USE" keybind, whilst the currently active scripture can be selected by holding down a dedicated "SWITCH" keybind and scrolling with the mouse or keyboard, always starting with the scripture selected as default initially selected. Scriptures can be added, rearranged and removed at a "Chronolith" structure with the "Eternal Chronolith Altar" found in deep oceans partially decayed. The altar is normally immovable, but if it is interacted with a end crystal, it becomes a "Stable Chronolith Altar" and can be moved with diamond tools. The functionality is unaffected. The chronolith altar can also be used to create new tomes, utilising a chance based mechanic. If a book is used on the altar, it starts attempting to create a new scripture. It picks a random percentage from 20% to 100% (weighted heaver towards 100%) and starts to accrue time in attempt to create a random weak scripture. The player can grant the altar a boost from their own time energy within the GUI. When the percentage of time accrued is equal to or greater than the required level the scripture is made. It then attempts to create the next level of tome, with a greater time frame required. The block will be coded in a way to allow temporal increasing blocks to affect it. When the player is satisfied with the scriptures level, they can withdraw the book to create a random tome of that level, reverting it to its default state of operation, ready to add it to your lexis or start another scripture. 

The Chronica Lexis itself needs to be created with a special set of steps. Firstly, players need to locate the book "Theorica Temporalis" which can be found in certain loot chests very rarely, and has an unreadable author (Janus). To activate the book you must follow precise steps to awaken its power. Firstly, the player must keep the book in their inventories for at least 10 in game days. At the end of this period, they will receive a message hinting to start the next phase of development. For the next stage, they must perform the ritual of continuity to gain the Chronica Lexis dormant form. A player must have the "Stirring Theorica Temporalis" in their off hand, and a clock in their main hand. As the moon sets on a new day, the player must click the clock to begin synchronisation, and must wait for a full minute whilst an animation occurs. If any mob or player comes within 10 blocks, or you take any damage, the ritual fails and must be repeated the following night. Players will receive another message to confirm the success. Finally, the player must locate and use the book "Awakened Theorica Temporalis" on the chronolith altar whilst it has a scripture inside it (from placing or from upgrading). This gives the full chronica lexis and when used on the air, it binds itself to the player and cannot be removed even by death. With no internal scriptures, it looks and behaves like its not there, only being interactable through the altar. At each step of the way, the book can be opened normally and read to give instructions on how to awaken the next stage, as well as lore. The lore can be read retroactively even with the chronica lexis itself, where if already bound with one, players can read it normally.

"Theorica Temporalis" -> "Stirring Theorica Temporalis"
	"The Theorica Temporalis slowly stirs from its slumber."

"Stirring Theorica Temporalis" -> "Awakened Theorica Temporalis"
	"The Theorica Temporalis has fully awakened, and craves rebirth."

"Awakened Theorica Temporalis" -> "Chronica Lexis"
	"The Chronica Lexis is born, granted as a gift from one long forgotten."

## Scriptures
